The high sand fluxes recorded at Site 1313 in the South Channel Area were likely 
caused by exceptionally high winds and sand migration from Phase 9/10 berm 
construction-related activity 80 meters upwind of the monitor.  Sand migrating 
from the berm may also have contributed to a small scour area adjacent to the 
monitor.  In addition to Phase 9/10 related berm construction activities, LADWP 
field personnel have observed large amounts of dust emitted from the 
construction of the new nearby Crystal Geyser facility during this same time 
period.<br><br>  
The winds on October 16, 2016, were among the highest ever recorded on Owens 
Lake.  At T1A-1, located 290 meters away from Site 1313, the maximum one-hour 
wind speed was 25.7 m/s—the 99.98th percentile value.  At Stanley, located 4.9 
km north but equidistant from the Sierra Nevada mountains, the maximum one-hour 
wind speed was 22.5 m/s—the 99.97th percentile value.  And at Dirty Socks, 
located 5.1 km southeast, the maximum one-hour wind speed was 14.8 m/s—the 
99.17th percentile value.  All of these values far exceed the 98th percentile 
wind speed previously accepted by the USEPA as an exceptionally high wind under 
the Exceptional Event Rule, and current threshold wind speed (25 mph, or 11.1 
m/s) accepted by the USEPA as an exceptionally high wind speed, above which dust 
will blow from undisturbed surfaces, under the recently promulgated Exceptional 
Events Rule Revisions (published in the Federal Register on 10/3/2016).<br><br> 
It should be noted that the Channel Area sprinkler irrigation system was turned 
off on October 13, 2016 for repair and winterization activities.<br><br>
